ON A MEDIA BLITZ TO CONVINCE A
SKEPTICAL PUBLIC TO SUPPOR
MILITARY ACTION IN SYRIA
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
BROADWAY'S MOST CELEBRATED
LIVING COMPOSER AND LYRICIST
STEPHEN SONDHEIM
>> I CAN'T IMAGINE ANYBODY
APPROACHING EVERY SINGLE NEW
PROJECT WITHOUT DOUBT.
IN FACT, I THINK IF YOU DO IT IS
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO TURN OUT
THAT WELL.
>> AND, FROM BOGOTA COLUMBIA T
COLUMBIA SOUTH CAROLINA, CARIN
FOR THE HOMELESS NEXT, ON PB
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
THIS IS PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
>>> GOOD EVENING
THANKS FOR JOINING US ON THI
FIRST SUNDAY OF OUR NE
BROADCAST.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THE PRESIDENT OF SYRIA
BASHAR-AL-ASSAD, SAID HE I
READYING HIS NATION FOR AN
ATTACK BY THE UNITED STATES AN
PLANS TO RETALIATE IF THERE IS
ONE.
ASSAD MADE HIS COMMENTS IN A
EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH CHARLIE
ROSE
ROSE TALKED TO US BY PHONE .
>> MY FIRST QUESTION WOULD YOU
EXPECT A STRIKE.
HE SAID HE DID NOT KNOW.
ASKED IF HE WAS MOVE THING
AROUND
HE TALKED ABOUT THAT RETALIATION
IF THERE IS A STRIKE HE COULDN'T
TALK ABOUT THAT BUT SUGGESTE
CLEARLY THAT BOTH SYRIA AND SOME
OF HIS FRIENDS WOULD RETALIATE
IN SOME WAY.
HE DENIES THAT HE HAD ANYTHING
TO DO WITH THE CHEMICAL ATTACKS,
BASICALLY SAYS -- MAKE ALL O
THE OBVIOUS POINTS HE POINTED TO
THE EVIDENCE THAT JOHN KERRY
HAS, HE SAYS WHY WOULD I MAKE IT
PUBLIC
THERE HAVE BEEN OTHER CASES IN
WHICH WE SUGGESTED SOMEBODY HA
WHEN THEY HADN'T
>> THIS OCCURRED AS THE OBAM
ADMINISTRATION LAUNCHED AN
ALL-OUT MEDIA BLITZ TODAY IN A
EFFORT TO PERSUADE A SKEPTICAL
PUBLIC AND CONGRESS ABOUT TH
NEED FOR A MILITARY ATTACK
THE PRESIDENT WILL ADDRESS THE
NATION TUESDAY NIGHT
TOMORROW, HE IS GRANTING
INTERVIEWS TO SIX NETWOR
ANCHORS, INCLUDING THE
NEWSHOUR'S GWEN IFILL.
TODAY, HE SENT WHITE HOUSE
CHIEF OF STAFF DENIS MCDONOUGH
TO ALL THE MORNING TALK SHOWS.
MCDONOUGH MADE THE POINT -
AGAIN AND AGAIN -- THAT AN
ATTACK AGAINST ASSAD'S REGIM
WOULD BE VERY CONTAINED.
>> THIS IS NOT IRAQ.
>> NOT A SITUATION LIKE IRAQ
>> THIS IS NOT IRAQ OR
AFGHANISTAN OR LIBYA
THIS IS NOT AN EXTENDED AI
CAMPAIGN
THIS IS SOMETHING TARGETED
LIMITED AND EFFECTIVE SO AS TO
UNDER SCORE THAT HE SHOULD NOT
THINK THAT HE CAN GET AWAY WIT
THIS AGAIN
>> THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATIO
TODAY PRESSED ITS EFFORTS TO WIN
INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT AS WELL.
IN PARIS , SECRETARY OF STAT
JOHN KERRY TRIED TO DRUM U
SUPPORT FOR MILITARY ACTIO
DURING A MEETING WITH ARAB
LEADERS.
AFTERWARDS, HE SAID SAUDI ARABIA
SUPPORTS THE US PLAN
BUT THE FOREIGN MINISTER O
QATAR STOPPED SHORT OF
SUPPORTING ANY MILITARY ACTION
>> Translator: AS FOR SYRIA AN
WHAT QATAR IS WILLING TO
PROVIDE, QATAR IS CURRENTL
STUDYING WITH ITS FRIENDS AN
THE UNITED NATIONS WHAT IT COULD
PROVIDE IN ORDER TO PROTECT TH
SYRIAN PEOPLE.
>> SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY SAID
AT LEAST 10 COUNTRIES ARE NO
BACKING MILITARY ACTION AGAINS
ASSAD'S REGIME
BUT FRANCE, A STAUNCH SUPPORTE
OF THAT APPROACH, NOW WANTS TO
WAIT UNTIL UN INSPECTORS ISSUE
THEIR FINDINGS ABOUT THE
CHEMICAL ATTACK THAT THE U.S
SAYS KILLED MORE THAN 14-HUNDRED
SYRIANS.
AND TODAY, KERRY SAID THE OBAM
ADMINISTRATION COULD CONCEIVABLY
GO BEFORE THE UN SECURIT
COUNCIL BEFORE TAKING MILITARY
ACTION
MEANWHILE, OPPONENTS OF MILITARY
ACTION -- FROM BOTH THE LEFT AND
THE RIGHT -- MADE THEIR CASE
TODAY.
THE PROGRESSIVE GROUP, MOVE ON
DOT ORG, STARTED RUNNING THIS AD
TO TRY TO CONVINCE CONGRESS NO
TO GO ALONG WITH THE PRESIDENT
>> WE NEVER SET OUT TO SPEND
EIGHT YEARS AT WAR IN IRAQ OR TO
BE MIRED DOWN FOR MORE THAN
DECADE OF FIGHTING I
AFGHANISTAN.
SO WHAT SHOULD AMERICA EXPECT IF
WE RUSH INTO SYRIA, ALONE, WIT
NO REAL PLAN FOR THE
CONSEQUENCES
WE ALREADY KNOW, IT GETS WORSE
>> AND CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICAN
SENATOR RAND PAUL PLEDGED HE
WOULD DO ALL HE COULD TO STO
AMERICAN MILITARY INTERVENTION
>> I WILL INSIST THERE IS FULL
DEBATE ON THIS AND I WILL INSIST
I GET AN AMENDMENT AND M
AMENDMENT WILL SAY THAT THE VOTE
IS BINDING, THAT THE PRESIDENT
CANNOT IF WE VOTE HIM DOWN
DECIDE TO GO TO WAR ANYWAY
THIS IS NOT CONSTITUTIONAL
THEATER.
>> OF COURSE, THAT WHOLE MEDIA
CAMPAIGN IS ULTIMATELY AIMED A
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO WILL
DECIDE IN THE NEXT DAYS AN
WEEKS WHETHER TO SUPPORT
MILITARY ACTION IN SYRIA
WE ARE JOINED BY SUSAN DAVIS,
CONGRESSIONAL REPORTER FOR "US
TODAY.
A LOT OF PEOPLE MIGHT NO
REALIZE THIS COULD TAKE SEVERA
WEEKS TO PLAY OUT AND TH
DECISION IS NOT HAPPENIN
IMMEDIATELY.
>> IT'S ENTIRELY POSSIBLE.
IT DEPENDS ON HOW WELL THE
PRESIDENT'S MESSAGE IS RECEIVE
ON TUESDAY, WHAT SENSE WE GE
WHETHER MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AR
COMING TOGETHER ON THIS OR
FALLING APART ON THIS.
THE FIRST TEST OF THIS IS GOIN
TO COME WEDNESDAY WHEN THE
SENATE WILL HAVE A TEST VOTE
IF THE SENATE RUNS OUT THE CLOCK
IT COULD COME AS LATE AS THE
WEEKEND ON NEXT WEEKEND AND TH
HOUSE HAS MADE CLEAR THEY AR
NOT GOING TO VOTE UNTIL TH
SENATE PROVES THEY CAN PAS
SOMETHING.
IF THAT IS THE CASE IT COULD G
UNTIL THE WEEK AFTER NEXT.
THE FIRST TWO WEEKS BACK SEEM TO
BE CLEARLY DOMINATED
>> WE HEARD FROM SENATOR RAN
PAUL THAT HE WANTS TO DO
EVERYTHING HE CAN TO STOP IT AND
HE HAS A HISTORY OF FILIBUSTER
>> I THINK WHAT WE ARE GOING T
SEE IN THE TEST VOTE O
WEDNESDAY WHEN YOU NEED
60-VOTE THRESHOLD TO GET PAS
THIS
I THINK HARRY REID HAS BEE
CONFIDENT HE CAN GET THERE I
PART BECAUSE SOME DEMOCRATS,
GOING TO POSE THE RESOLUTION BUT
WOULD NOT NECESSARILY BE A VOT
TO UPHOLD A FILIBUSTER
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO VOTE AGAINST
IT IN THE END BUT DON'T WANT T
BE OBSTRUCTIONS.
>> IN A RECENT SURVEY BY THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS IT SAID HAL
THE SENATE AND A THIRD OF TH
HOUSE ARE AGAINST IT
>> THE ONE ABSOLUTE WE HAV
HEARD FROM EVERY MEMBER OF
CONGRESS WE TALKED TO IS THA
THEY ARE HEARING FRO
CONSTITUENTS ABOUT IT AND TEN TO
ONE ARE AGAINST IT
I THINK THAT IS PART OF THE ODDS
STACKED AGAINST THE PRESIDENT AS
HE TRIES TO MAKE HIS CASE TO
CONGRESS
I CAUTION THAT A LOT OF THE VOTE
COUNTS ARE LEAN NOs AND LEAN
YESs
WE ARE COMING OFF OF A FIVE WEEK
BREAK.
A LOT HAVE NOT BEEN PRIVY TO THE
CLASSIFIED BRIEFINGS
WHILE IT IS AN INDICATOR AND
WHILE THERE DOES NOT SEEM TO B
MUCH MOMENTUM MOVING IN TH
FAVOR OF THE PRESIDENT THERE ARE
STILL A LOT OF FACTORS THA
WEIGH IN ON HOW THE VOTE COMES
DOWN
IT SEEMS IN TH
REPUBLICAN-CONTROLLED HOUSE IT
IS MUCH MORE OF AN UPHIL
BATTLE
NOT ONLY TO GET REPUBLICANS ON
BOARD BUT TRADITIONALL
PRESIDENTS HAVE HAD TO RELY ON
MEMBERS OF THEIR OWN PARTY
DEMOCRATS CONTROL THE SENATE
THEY HAVE ABOUT 200 VOTES IN THE
HOUSE.
IT SEEMS CLEAR THEY HAVE T
BUILD THE MAJORITY OF TH
SUPPORT IF THE RESOLUTION HA
ANY CHANCE OF PASSING CONGRESS
>> CONSIDERING THERE ARE BOT
EDGES OF THE POLITICAL SPECTRU
STACKED AGAINST THE PRESIDEN
HERE, WHAT DOES HE HAVE TO DO TO
TRY TO REACH BOTH DEMOCRATS AN
REPUBLICANS?
>> ONE THING THAT I THINK THEY
ARE LISTENING TO ON TUESDA
NIGHT ALONG WITH THEIR
CONSTITUENTS IS THE ARGUMENT
THAT THE PRESIDENT MAKES
PARTLY THEY MADE IT AS A
NATIONAL SECURITY ARGUMENT
I THINK WHAT WE HAVE SEE
THROUGH THE WEEKEND AND COMING
FROM THE PRESIDENT IS TH
HUMANITARIAN ELEMENT TO IT
I THINK IT IS A QUESTION O
MORALITY AND RIGHT AND WRONG
WHETHER WE CAN ALLOW PEOPLE WH
PERPETRATED CHEMICAL ATTACKS AND
KILLED HUNDREDS OF CHILDREN TO
DO SO WITHOUT REPERCUSSIONS.
I THINK IT COMES DOWN TO A
QUESTION OF WHAT IS RIGHT AN
WHAT IS WRONG.
LESS THAN IT IS ANYTHING BACKE
AWAY FROM THE ARGUMENT THAT THIS
IS NOT POTENTIALLY AN IMMEDIAT
THREAT TO THE NATIONAL SECURIT
OF THE UNITED STATES WHICH IS
LITMUS TEST FOR A LOT OF
MEMBERS.
BUT HE HAS TO MAKE A CLEAR
EMOTIONAL APPEAL TO THE SENSE OF
HUMANITY
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> BACK OVERSEAS -
THERE'S BEEN A SPATE OF VIOLENCE
IN AFGHANISTAN
THE TALIBAN SET OFF A CAR BOMB
OUTSIDE AN INTELLIGENCE OFFICE
NEAR KABUL AND THEN TRIED TO
LAUNCH A SEPARATE ATTACK ON TH
BUILDING
FOUR SOLDIERS AND SIX INSURGENTS
WERE KILLED IN THE ENSUING
BATTLE
IN A SEPARATE INCIDENT, A NATO
AIRSTRIKE IS SAID TO HAVE KILLED
10 MILITANTS
BUT THERE WERE REPORTS THA
EIGHT CIVILIANS -- INCLUDING
SEVEN WOMEN AND CHILDREN -- ALSO
DIED IN THE ATTACK
>>> THERE WAS AN IMPORTANT
ELECTION IN MOSCOW TODAY
A KEY DISSIDENT FIGURE, ALEXEI
NAVALNY, APPARENTLY HAS COME U
SHORT IN HIS BID TO BECOME THE
MAYOR OF MOSCOW.
HE WAS DEFEATED BY THE
INCUMBENT, A CLOSE ALLY OF
PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
NAVALNY SAYS HIS OWN EXIT POLL
SHOW THE CONTEST SHOULD HAVE
PROGRESSED TO A RUNOFF
EARLIER, NAVALNY WAS CONVICTED
ON EMBEZZLEMENT CHARGES --
CHARGES HE CLAIMS WERE TRUMPED
UP BY THE KREMLIN TO PUNISH HI
FOR HIS ANTI-CORRUPTIO
CAMPAIGN
HE FACES A FIVE-YEAR JAIL TERM
FROM GERMANY TONIGHT
THE MAGAZINE DER SPIEGEL I
REPORTING THAT AMERICA'S
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY I
CAPABLE OF ACCESSING USER DATA
ON MOST MAJOR SMART PHONES
INCLUDING APPLE iPHONES,
BLACKBERRIES, AND ON DEVICES
USING GOOGLE'S ANDROID OPERATING
SYSTEM
THE MAGAZINE SAYS ITS REPORT I
BASED ON TOP SECRET NS
DOCUMENTS THAT IT HAS SEEN
>>> ON FRIDAY GOOGLE ANNOUNCED
THAT IT HAS ACCELERATED EFFORT
TO ENCRYPT ALL ITS DATA.
THAT FOLLOWED EARLIER REPORT
ABOUT NSA ABILITIES TO BREAK
DIGITAL LOCKS.
A GOOGLE VICE PRESIDENT COMPARED
THE SITUATION TO "AN ARMS RACE
BETWEEN THE COMPANY AN
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES, WHICH H
CALLED AMONG "THE MOST SKILLED
PLAYERS IN THIS GAME."
>>> AND WORD TONIGHT FROM TH
INTERNATIONAL OLYMPICS COMMITTEE
THAT THE SPORT OF WRESTLING WILL
ONCE AGAIN BE PART OF TH
OLYMPICS GAMES IN 2020
JUST SEVEN MONTHS AGO, IT WA
DROPPED.
THE NEWS TODAY FOLLOWE
YESTERDAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT THA
TOKYO WILL HOST THE 2020 GAMES
IT BEAT OUT ISTANBUL AND MADRID.
>>> WHAT WILL CONGRESS BE DOIN
IN THE UPCOMING SESSION WHEN
IT'S NOT DISCUSSING SYRIA?
JOINING US NOW FROM WASHINGTON
FOR THAT IS CHRISTIN
BELLANTONI
SHE IS THE NEWSHOUR'S POLITICA
EDITOR
THIS WOULD OTHERWISE BE
CONSEQUENTIAL WEEK IN CONGRESS
WHAT'S GOING ON?
>> THERE ARE A LOT OF THINGS O
CONGRESS'S PLATE
ONE THING WE THOUGHT THE HOUSE
WOULD BE TURNING TO IS
IMMIGRATION REFORM
THE SENATE PASSED BY
OVERWHELMING MAJORITY
COMPREHENSIVE BILL
LAWMAKERS NOT IN FAVOR OF
COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH ARE
PUTTING PEACE MEAL LEGISLATION
ON THE FLOOR TO ADDRESS THE VISA
SYSTEM AND THAT WOULD GET PEOPLE
TOWARDS A COMPROMISE PACKAGE
THAT IS NOT GOING TO HAPPE
GIVEN WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH
SYRIA.
THE OTHER MAJOR PIECE OF THIS IS
SPENDING, THE DEBT, THE DEFICI
AND WHAT THEY ARE DOING ABOU
FUNDING THE GOVERNMENT
>> ONE OF THE FOLKS ON FACEBOO
WAS ASKING ABOUT THE GOVERNMEN
SHUT DOWN.
WHY ISN'T ANYBODY TALKING ABOU
THAT
WE HAVE NINE DAYS OR SO?
>> CONGRESS WILL HAVE NINE
WORKING DAYS
WHAT THEY NEED TO DO IS COME U
WITH WHAT IS KNOWN AS
CONTINUING RESOLUTION BECAUSE OF
A DIVIDED GOVERNMENT THEY DON'
ACTUALLY HAVE THE ABILITY TO
PASS A REAL BUDGET THAT KEEP
THE GOVERNMENT FUNDED AND LOOK
AT LEVELS OF SPENDING.
INSTEAD THEY HAVE SHORT TERM
RESOLUTIONS IN PLACE FOR ONE
YEAR
THAT HAS BEEN GETTING SHORTE
AND SHORTER.
THIS IS THE THIRD TIME WE HAVE
HAD SUCH A BIG ARGUMENT ABOU
HOW TO FUND THE GOVERNMENT
AND IT EXPIRES ON SEPTEMBER 30
THEN THAT MEANS A PARTIAL OR
FULL GOVERNMENT SHUT DOWN.
THE BIG STICKING POINT HERE IS A
LOT OF HOUSE REPUBLICANS IN TH
SENATE WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE
PRESIDENT'S HEALTH CARE LA
DEFUNDED, PARTS OF IT THAT WOULD
BE IMPLEMENTED OVER THE FALL
OVER THE NEXT FEW MONTHS, THEY
CAN TAKE AWAY THE FUNDING FO
THAT
IF THAT ISN'T AGREED TO BY THA
SEPTEMBER 30 DEADLINE IT COULD
BE A REAL FIGHT.
IN ADDITION TO THAT YOU HAVE THE
LIMIT FOR WHAT THE GOVERNMEN
CAN SPEND ON ITS DEBT.
AND THAT IS COMING TO PASS VER
SOON
SO THAT IS ALL GETTING LUMPE
INTO ONE BIG ARGUMENT ABOU
SPENDING
>> SO A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THI
OBAMA CARE PUSH TO TRY TO REPEAL
IT AGAIN
IT HAS BEEN ATTESTED MAN
DIFFERENT TIMES.
WHY NOW?
>> WELL, PARTIALLY YOU SEE
GROUPS LIKE THE HERITAGE
FOUNDATION AND OTHER
CONSERVATIVE GROUPS REALLY
CAPITALIZE ON THE POPULARITY
SENATOR TED CRUZ IS ONE OF THEM.
THEY ARE PLANNING A MASSIV
RALLY ON TUESDAY
I SHOULDN'T SAY MASSIVE.
WE DON'T KNOW WHICH SIDE IT IS
GOING TO BE.
THE FOCUS IS MOSTLY ON SYRIA AND
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS O
TUESDAY.
THEY ARE GOING TO HAVE THE
DEFUND OBAMA CARE RALLY IN
WASHINGTON TO MAKE THE CASE FO
THAT SAYING WE HAVE A LOT OF
UNANSWERED QUESTIONS ABOUT IT.
THEY ARE ANGRY THAT THE WHIT
HOUSE DELAYED THE EMPLOYER
MANDATE FOR IMPLEMENTATION O
THE HEALTH CARE LAW.
AND WHAT THEY ARE TRYING TO DO
IS CHOKE IT A LITTLE BIT SO IT
DOESN'T GET FULLY IMPLEMENTED.
DEMOCRATS ARE USING THIS AS
CAMPAIGN ISSUE, AS WELL.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
>>> WANT TO KNOW WHAT POLITICA
STORIES TO WATCH OUT FOR EVERY
DAY?
SUBSCRIBE TO THE MORNING LIN
E-MAIL
EVERY WEEKEND BROADCAST, AS TH
NEWS ALLOWS, WE WILL B
INCLUDING ANOTHER FEATURE.
IT MIGHT BE ABOUT BUSINESS
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
RELIGION, THE MEDIA, OR TH
ARTS
ESPECIALLY THE ARTS.
IN COMING MONTHS, WE PLAN TO
SHOWCASE ARTS CONTENT BEIN
PRODUCED BY REPORTERS AT PBS
STATIONS ACROSS THE NATION
TONIGHT, THOUGH, OUR REPORT IS
BY SOMEONE PROBABLY MUCH MOR
FAMILIAR TO YOU, JEFFREY BROWN
RECENTLY, HE CAUGHT UP WITH ON
OF AMERICA'S LEGENDARY ART
FIGURES -- STEPHEN SONDHEIM --
WHO REFLECTED ON THE SEEMINGLY
ENDLESS AWARDS COMING HIS WAY IN
HIS ADVANCED YEARS -- AND ON THE
CREATIVE PROCESS THAT KEEPS HI
YOUNG AT HEART
>>> HELLO.
WELCOME ALL YOU RAGING
SONDHEIMIANS
WHO HAVE MADE THE PILGRIMAGE
HERE TODAY TO BASK IN TH
>> A GLORIOUS AUGUST DAY I
SOUTHERN NEW HAMPSHIRE AND THE
PRESTIGIOUS MACDOWELL ARTS
COLONY IS GIVING ITS ANNUA
MEDAL TO MUSICAL THEATER'S MOS
CELEBRATED LIVING COMPOSER AND
LYRICIST, STEPHEN SONDHEIM
IN ITS 106 YEARS, MACDOWELL,
WHICH HAS GIVEN COUNTLES
ARTISTS A PLACE TO DO THEI
WORK, HAS HONORED THE LIKES OF
AARON COPLAND, PHILIP ROTH, AN
EDWARD ALBEE, BUT NEVER BEFORE
AN ARTIST FROM MUSICAL THEATRE
SONDHEIM TOLD US HE'S GRATEFUL
FOR THE HONOR BUT HE ADMITS TO
AT LEAST SOME AMBIVALENCE ABOU
THE 'ELDER STATESMAN' TREATMENT.
>> AS YOU GET OLDER, YOU GET -
LOT OF -- A LOT OF AWARDS, YEAH.
IT'S -
YOU GET -- YOU GET VENERABLE
YOU GET VENERABLE?
YEAH
HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT BEIN
VENERABLE?
IT'S GOOD AND BAD.
YOU START BELIEVING YOUR OWN
NOTICES, AND THAT'S NOT SO GOOD.
AND SO AT 83, SONDHEIM ISN'T
SIMPLY ENJOYING THE ADMIRATION
OF HIS MANY FANS
HE TAKING ON NEW CHALLENGES.
HE'S WORKING ON A PROJEC
DEBUTING IN THE FALL WIT
JAZZMAN WYNTON MARSALIS, THAT'
BILLED AS A CELEBRATION OF NEW
YORK AND A RE-IMAGINATION OF
SONDHEIM'S WORK.
DISNEY IS PRODUCING A FILM
VERSION OF HIS MUSICAL "INTO THE
WOODS.
♪ I WAS CAUGHT UNAWARE ♪
>> AND HE'S ALSO WORKING ON
NEW MUSICAL CALLED "ALL TOGETHER
NOW" WITH PLAYWRIGHT DAVID IVES.
>> EVERYBODY WHO FACES A BLANK
PIECE OF PAPER NO MATTER WHA
THEY HAVE WRITTEN OR COMPOSE
BEFORE, I CAN'T IMAGINE ANYBOD
APPROACHING EVERY SINGLE NEW
PROJECT WITHOUT DOUBT.
IN FACT, IF YOU DO IT IS
PROBABLY NOT GOING TO TURN OUT
WELL
>> SOMETHING THAT IS DANGEROUS
SOMETHING YOU ARE NOT SMUG
ABOUT, NOT CERTAIN ABOUT
SONDHEIM'S BEEN SURPRISING
AUDIENCES AND CRITICS FOR NEARLY
60 YEARS NOW
HE'S WON A PULITZER, 8 TONYS,
GRAMMYS AND AN ACADEMY AWARD
IT ALL DATES BACK TO THE 1950S
WHEN HE WROTE THE LYRICS T
LEONARD BERNSTEIN'S SCORE FO
'WEST SIDE' STORY.
>> BUT EVEN THIS EARLY SUCCESS
WAS MORE COMPLICATED THA
SONDHEIM HAD IMAGINED.
>> I CERTAINLY WANTED MY NAM
IN LIGHTS.
I WANTED MY NAME ON A MARQUEE.
I WANTED RECOGNITION ON BROADWAY
AND THEN ONCE I HAD MY NAME ON A
MARQUEE ON BROADWAY WITH WES
SIDE STORY, SUDDENLY THAT'
ALL THAT IS.
I FELT IN A WAY DEFLATED
YEAH
BECAUSE IT WAS EXCITING BUT,
OKAY, NOW WHAT
AND THEN YOU REALIZE THAT YOU DO
THAT BECAUSE YOU WANNA WRITE
SOMETHING THAT YOU LIKE, A
OPPOSED TO WRITE SOMETHING
THAT'S GONNA GET YOUR NAME I
LIGHTS OR BE SUCCESSFUL.
>> OVER THE NEXT DECADES, AS
BROADWAY ARGUABLY WENT LIGHTER
SONDHEIM WENT DEEPER, USIN
LANGUAGE AND MUSIC TO EXPLOR
COMPLEX IDEAS.
ADULT RELATIONSHIPS IN
"COMPANY
YOU DO LIVE WITH HER, YOU'RE
SCARED SHE'S STARTING TO DRIFT
AWAY, AND SCARED SHE'LL STAY
>> THE ARTISTIC PROCESS ITSELF
IN "SUNDAY IN THE PARK WIT
GEORGE".
♪ LIVES A LITTLE SPACE IN THE
WAY LIKE THE WINDOW ♪
>> AND MURDEROUS VENGEANCE I
WHAT MANY BELIEVE TO BE HI
MASTERWORK, "SWEENEY TODD" SET
IN VICTORIAN LONDON.
>> IN SHOW AFTER SHOW STEVE KEPT
PUSHING THE BOUNDARY OF TH
MUSICAL.
>> FRANK RICH INTRODUCED HIM AND
SPOKE TO US.
>> I FOUND HE SINGLE-HANDEDL
HAS KEPT THE MODERN MUSICA
THEATER IN A SERIOUS PLACE
IT COULD HAVE PETERED OUT AN
BEEN ALL FRIVOLOUS LOWEST COMMON
DENOMINATOR.
SONDHEIM KEPT THE PAST, IT
DOESN'T HAVE TO BE ALL "CATS
AND SPECIAL EFFECTS AND CHORUS
GIRLS AND BOYS
>> DID YOU EVER IN YOUR CAREER
HAVE TIMES WHERE YOU WERE AFRAID
TO WRITE BECAUSE OF THE HIGH
EXPECTATIONS THAT WERE PLACE
AROUND YOU
>> THE OLDER I GET THE MORE THAT
IS TRUE, ABSOLUTELY.
>> STILL
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WHAT THAT MEANS IS SUDDENLY YO
ARE NOT THINKING ABOUT YOURSELF.
YOU ARE THINKING ABOUT THE
AUDIENCE
AS SOON AS YOU THINK ABOUT THE
AUDIENCE FROM THAT POINT OF VIEW
YOU ARE DEAD
SUDDENLY YOU ARE THINKING OF
YOURSELF AS AN ICON AND
FIGURE
THAT IS JUST DEADLY.
>> THAT'S THE TROUBLE WITH
AWARDS FOR A BODY OF WORK.
THEY TELL YOU WHAT YOU HAVE BEEN
DOING WAS WORTH THE DOING AN
WRONG BECAUSE THEY OUGHT TO COME
WHEN YOU ARE YOUNG AND EXCITED
AND HUNGRY FOR ASSURANCE THA
WHAT YOU ARE DOING IS WORTH TH
DOING.
AGE, DOUBTS AND, YES, NEW HONORS
ARE PART OF HIS LIFE NOW
BUT, SONDHEIM SAYS: TH
CHALLENGE, THE WORK, KEEPS HIM
GOING.
>> THAT'S WHY I DON'T LIKE THE
WORD CAREER.
WHEN SOMEBODY SAYS TO ME, 'OH,
YOU'VE HAD SUCH A WONDERFU
CAREER', I THINK, 'CAREER THAT'S
AFTER YOU'RE DEAD' I JUST DON'
THINK THAT WAY
>> AND HOW DO YOU THINK?
I MEAN JUST DAY TO DAY
>> THAT'S IT
ONE SHOW AT A TIME
>> PIECE TO PIECE AND SHOW T
SHOW
THAT JUST KEEPS YOU EXCITED.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
SURE
THEN I'M 20 YEARS OLD AGAIN.
AND WHAT YOU WANNA DO IT GET
BACK TO WHAT YOU WERE LIKE A
YOU GOTTA GET HUNGRY AGAIN
AND THE OLDER AND MORE VENERATED
YOU GET, THE LESS HUNGRY YOU
GET.
BUT AS SOON AS YOU GET HUNGRY,
THEN IT'S FUN AGAIN.
>>> THIS IS PBS "NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND SUNDAY".
>> ONE ISSUE UNLIKELY TO TAKE UP
MUCH TIME IN CONGRESS THIS FAL
IS -HOMELESSNESS
EVEN THOUGH 600,000 AMERICAN
ARE HOMELESS, INCLUDIN
THOUSANDS OF VETERANS.
WHAT ARE THE CITIES DOING ABOU
IT
THAT'S THE SUBJECT OF OU
REGULAR FEATURE, THE CONNECTION.
WE CAME ACROSS A STORY FRO
BOGOTA COLUMBIA ABOUT THAT
CITY'S AMBITIOUS NEW PLAN -- NOT
ONLY TO FEED THE HOMELESS -- BUT
TO OFFER THEM A SHOWER, SHAV
AND VACCINATIONS TOO
>> WE DO THIS WITH THE GOAL OF
RESTORING THEIR DIGNITY.
>> THAT SAME DAY, WE REA
ANOTHER STORY ABOUT THE HOMELESS
IN COLUMBIA, COLUMBIA, SOUTH
CAROLINA
THAT CITY IS NOW OFFERING IT
HOMELESS A CHOICE -- VOLUNTARILY
GO TO A SHELTER.
NOT DOWNTOWN OR FACE ARREST.
LOCAL MERCHANTS HAD COMPLAINED
THAT HOMELESS PEOPLE NEAR THEI
SHOPS WERE HURTING BUSINESS.
>> WE PAY TAXES, PROPERTY TAXES,
BUSINESS TAXES, BUSINESS LICENSE
FEES AND WE DESERVE PROTECTION
OF OUR CITY.
THAT CITY IS NOT ALONE
A NEW YORK COMMUNITY GROUP HAS
SUED THE BLOOMBERG
ADMINISTRATION FOR HOUSING THE
HOMELESS IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND IN INDIANAPOLIS, POLIC
ARRESTED FOUR HOMELESS WHO
REFUSED TO LEAVE THE CAMP THEY
HAD SET UP UNDER A BRIDGE.
YOU HAVE TO WONDER IF THERE'D BE
MORE SYMPATHY FOR THE HOMELESS
IF WE ACTUALLY HEARD FROM THEM
>> THINK ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED
AFTER A REPORTER ENGAGED A
HOMELESS MAN TWO YEARS AGO I
COLUMBUS, OHIO
THE REPORTER HAD BEEN INTRIGUE
BY THE MAN'S SIGN, CLAIMING HE
WAS A FORMER RADIO ANNOUNCER
>> I'M GOING TO MAKE YOU WOR
FOR YOUR DOLLAR, SAY SOMETHING
WITH THAT GREAT RADIO VOICE.
E.
>> WHEN YOU'RE LISTENING T
NOTHING BUT THE BEST OF OLDIES
YOU'RE LISTENING TO MAGIC 98.9
THE TAPE THE REPORTER SHOT
QUICKLY WENT VIRAL. AND TH
HOMELESS MAN WAS SOON FLOWN TO
NEW YORK WHERE HE APPEARED O
THE TODAY SHOW
HE WAS THEN OFFERED A JOB DOIN
VOICEOVER WORK FOR KRAFT
THAT GOT US THINKING
ABOUT THE ALL THE OTHERS STILL
OUT ON THE STREETS. WHAT ARE
THEIR STORIES? HOW DO THEY GET
HOME?.
RECAPPING TODAY'S TOP STORY.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION GOES ON
A MEDIA BLITZ TO CONVINCE
SKEPTICAL PUBLIC TO SUPPOR
MILITARY ACTION IN SYRIA
A FEW PROGRAMMING NOTES, YOU
CAN SEE CHARLIE ROSE'S EXCLUSIVE
INTERVIEW WITH SYRIAN PRESIDEN
BASHAR AL-ASSAD IN A SPECIAL
PRIMETIME BROADCAST ON PBS
MONDAY NIGHT
AND TOMORROW NIGHT ON THE PB
NEWS HOUR - GWEN AND JUD
WOODRUFF OFFICIALLY LAUNCH
THEIR ANCHOR PARTNERSHIP
GWEN WILL HAVE AN INTERVIEW WITH
PRESIDENT OBAMA.
>> VISIT US ONLINE TO SEE OU
BRAND NEW LOOK
ALL THAT IS AT NEWSHOUR.PBS.OR
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, THANKS FOR
WATCHING
-- Captions by VITAC -
www.vitac.co